At this point, you've seen a
high-level overview of some
of the major components
inside the transformer
architecture.
But you still haven't seen how
the overall prediction process
works from end to end.
Let's walk through
a simple example.
In this example, you'll look at
a translation task or a
sequence-to-sequence task,
which incidentally was
the original objective
of the transformer
architecture designers.
You'll use a transformer
model to translate
the French phrase
[FOREIGN] into English.
First, you'll tokenize
the input words using
this same tokenizer that was
used to train the network.
These tokens are then added into
the input on the encoder
side of the network,
passed through the
embedding layer,
and then fed into the
multi-headed attention layers.
The outputs of the multi-headed
attention layers are fed through
a feed-forward network to
the output of the encoder.
At this point, the data
that leaves the encoder is
a deep representation of
the structure and meaning
of the input sequence.
This representation is
inserted into the middle of
the decoder to influence
the decoder's
self-attention mechanisms.
Next, a start of sequence token
is added to the input
of the decoder.
This triggers the decoder
to predict the next token,
which it does based on
the contextual
understanding that it's
being provided from the encoder.
The output of the decoder's
self-attention layers
gets passed through
the decoder feed-forward
network and
through a final
softmax output layer.
At this point, we
have our first token.
You'll continue this loop,
passing the output token back to
the input to trigger the
generation of the next token,
until the model predicts
an end-of-sequence token.
At this point, the final
sequence of tokens
can be detokenized into words,
and you have your output.
In this case, I love
machine learning.
There are multiple ways in
which you can use the output
from the softmax layer to
predict the next token.
These can influence
how creative you are
generated text is.
You will look at these in
more detail later this week.
Let's summarize what
you've seen so far.
The complete transformer
architecture consists
of an encoder and
decoder components.
The encoder encodes
input sequences into
a deep representation of
the structure and
meaning of the input.
The decoder, working from
input token triggers,
uses the encoder's
contextual understanding
to generate new tokens.
It does this in a loop
until some stop condition
has been reached.
While the translation example
you explored here used
both the encoder and decoder
parts of the transformer,
you can split these
components apart
for variations of
the architecture.
Encoder-only models also
work as sequence-to-sequence
models,
but without further
modification,
the input sequence and
the output sequence
or the same length.
Their use is less
common these days,
but by adding additional
layers to the architecture,
you can train encoder-only
models to perform
classification tasks such
as sentiment analysis,
but is an example of
an encoder-only model.
Encoder-decoder models,
as you've seen,
perform well on
sequence-to-sequence tasks
such as translation,
where the input sequence and
the output sequence can
be different lengths.
You can also scale and
train this type of model
to perform general
text generation tasks.
Examples of
encoder-decoder models
include BART as opposed
to BERT and T5,
the model that you'll use
in the labs in this course.
Finally, decoder-only models
are some of the most
commonly used today.
Again, as they have scaled,
their capabilities have grown.
These models can now
generalize to most tasks.
Popular decoder-only
models include
the GPT family of models,
BLOOM, Jurassic,
LLaMA, and many more.
You'll learn more about
these different varieties of
transformers and how they
are trained later this week.
That was quite a lot.
The main goal of
this overview of
transformer models is to give
you enough background to
understand the
differences between
the various models being used
out in the world and to be able
to read model documentation.
I want to emphasize that
you don't need to worry
about remembering all the
details you've seen here,
as you can come back to
this explanation as
often as you need.
Remember that you'll
be interacting with
transformer models
through natural language,
creating prompts using
written words, not code.
You don't need to
understand all of
the details of the underlying
architecture to do this.
This is called
prompt engineering,
and that's what you'll explore
in the next part of this course.
Let's move on to the
next video to learn more